
# **GAuth - Google Authenticator CLI Tool**

## **Overview**

**GAuth** is a simple command-line tool for managing Google Authenticator Time-based One-Time Passwords (TOTP). It enables users to generate secret keys based on email addresses and validate the TOTP codes generated by Google Authenticator.

This tool helps in implementing an extra layer of security for your applications through two-factor authentication (2FA).

---

## **Features**

- **Generate Google Authenticator Secret**: Create a unique secret for each user, based on their email address.
- **Verify TOTP Codes**: Validate the Google Authenticator codes generated using the secret.
  
---

## **Usage**

### **Basic Commands**

The general syntax for using `gauth`:

```bash
gauth [command]
```

### **Available Commands**

| Command  | Description                                      |
|----------|--------------------------------------------------|
| `generate` | Generate a Google Authenticator secret code based on the provided email. |
| `verify`   | Verify the TOTP code generated by Google Authenticator. |
| `help`     | Display help information for available commands. |

### **Examples**

1. **Generate a Secret:**
   ```bash
   gauth generate --email=user@example.com
   ```
   This will generate a secret for the provided email address.

2. **Verify a Code:**
   ```bash
   gauth verify --code=123456 --secrete=QQWSBTDSNJQGQ14RH7JFT
   ```
   This will verify the code `123456` for the user associated with the secrete key `QQWSBTDSNJQGQ14RH7JFT`.

---

## **Flags**

- `-h, --help`: Provides help for any command.

For more information on a specific command, use:
```bash
gauth [command] --help
```

---

## **Installation**

Clone the repository and navigate into the project directory:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/avinash-ghadshi/googleAuthenticator.git
cd googleAuthenticator
```

Build and install the tool:

```bash
sudo make
sudo make install
```

---

## **Platform Support**

Linux: This tool is designed specifically for Linux-based systems.

---

## **Contributing**

Contributions, issues, and feature requests are welcome! Feel free to check the [issues page](https://github.com/avinash-ghadshi/googleAuthenticator/issues).

---

## **License**

This project is licensed under the [GNU License](LICENSE).

---

## **Contact**

For further inquiries or support, please contact avinashghadshi93@gmail.com.